This video is brought to you by Squarespace from websites and online stores to
marketing tools and analytics.
Squarespace is the only one platform to build a beautiful online presence and
run your business.
Check out Squarespace through the link of the description below more about them
in a bit
Here.
Our biographics we've covered plenty of room in and even a few figures from the
Roman Republic. But what about the Roman kingdom?
The earliest period from Romans long and rich history, unfortunately,
Romans from the Regor period were not the detailed record keepers that their
descendants would become.
So most of that history is based on legends and or traditions,
but we're gonna give it a today.
We're gonna take a look at Luin Tarquin Superbus the last king of Rome.
We will be examining his family heritage and the many,
many murderous plots that first caused his rise power, and later his downfall,
which not only represented the end of his reign,
but the end of the entire Roman monarchy and the birth of the Republic.
Before we head to tar wind,
we should look briefly at the Roman kingdom itself as, as a whole,
as a part of history that is often overlooked.
The Regal period lasted for around 250 years,
roughly between 750 and 500 BC. Traditionally,
there are seven record Kings of Rome. Although realistically,
there could have been more or less. For example,
most of us have heard of the first king Romulus, the founder of Rome,
the boy who was raised by a shul for alongside his twin brother, Remus,
who later murdered his sibling during a dispute over where to found then new
city unsurprisingly,
many scholars considered the tale of Romulus entirely legendary.
So whether or naughty was a historical figure who served as king is up for
debate. The problem here is a complete lack of contemporary sources.
This is common French and times in general,
but not so much for the Romans who were usually pretty good at documenting their
history. If records from these times did exist at some points,
they would've likely been destroyed in 390 BC.
When the city of Rome was sacked for the first time,
our main source for the Roman kingdom is the historian levy,
whose book is the history of Rome covers. Well,
it covers the history of Rome since it's founding to the birth of the embar
under Augustus,
but even he lived almost 500 years after the last king was overthrown.
So he certainly relied on a lot of hearsay and legends.
Other historians who covered this time period include Caius do and Dar or
ACI, but their works have not survived in their entirety.
So when you get fragments about the reign of Tarquin from them.
So let's start at the beginning.
Romulus founded the city of Roman served as its first king unsurprisingly.
He wielded almost total power since he was in charge of the military,
the chief priest and the head of the executive judicial and legislative
branches. Surprisingly though the Roman Senate existed from the very beginning,
according to li Romulus created it and named 100 senators from among Rome's most
influential families.
Those original 100 were given the title of pars signifying that they held
complete authority within their families. Better descendants.
Weren't known as S although the dump later ly referred to all members of Romes
ruling class, regardless of whether or not they were descended from Padres.
The Roman kingdom also had several assemblies chief among them,
the curator assembly, however, like the senates,
their authority was mostly symbolic as their may in function was to simply enact
the decree of the king. There was one exceptions of this,
and that was when it was time to find a new king. Surprisingly,
the Roman Kings were elected and they were not named by their predecessors.
Whenever a king died,
Roman did a brief period called an interregnum where the Senate had the power.
They then chose one among them and named him into regs and his duty to
serve as a provisional ruler,
ensuring that the transition to the next king went smoothly.
Each Inex could only serve for five days after which he was replaced by another
Senator.
He had the power to nominate a new king and presented them before the curator
assembly, which decided whether or not they had the right stuff for the throne.
A religious ceremony followed to ensure that the candidate had also had the
approval of the gods. And afterwards,
there was the final vote to see if this candidate would become the new king of
Rome
Lu Tarquin Superbus was born sometime around the mid sixth century. BC,
assuming that our knowledge of the seven Kings is accurate.
He was the only one who was actually dis it from one of the previous rulers.
He was the son of the fifth king Luci Tarquin Pritzker,
who retroactively became known as Tarquin the elder,
while his son was referred to his, Tarquin the proud to help distinguish them.
His mother was named Tanque and neither her Nora husband were born in Rome.
According to li they were both Tuscans, an ancient Italian civilization,
the predated, the Roman, and came from ATRIO,
which was a region that mainly corresponds to Tuscany today,
plus parts of and Lao percus.
And Tanaquil had married back home in Auria. They both came from wealthy family,
so they had money, but they didn't have status.
Some of the biggest privileges were off limits to PCUs because he was not fully
a trun as his father was a Corinthian noble refugee named demo.
Rattus therefore the couple decided to move to Rome where there wasn't so much
focus on heritage yet on their way there,
they received an Oman from the gods when an Eagle sweeps down and picked up
percuss hat, circled the air for a while,
and then descended again and placed the hat gently on the head from when it came
tan world became convinced that this meant that a husband would be crowned king
one day and resolved to see E this prophecy fulfilled, no matter the cost,
because regardless if it was a kingdom or a public or an em empire,
Rome was never short on political injury conspiracy,
hence the occasional assassination and the period that followed had all of these
things in spades dark when the elder and his wife arrived in Rome during the
reign of the fourth king ANSYS Barus presumably they had all their children
after their relocation to the new city, they had four offspring,
two boys and two girls. That was the younger Tarquin of course,
plus his brother Aaron's Tarquin and two daughters.
And at least one of them was also called Tarquin.
So certainly not a lot of variety P percus proved himself to be an able and
cunning businessman. And he not only enlarged his fortune,
but he became a trusted advisor to the king. At one point,
an Marcias even named PPRI as the guardian of his children.
He had two sons and it was assumed that one of them would be elected as the new
king when they came of age. But the tars had other plans.
It was said that after anchors Marus died,
Tarquin arranged for his sons to be away on a hunting trip.
When it was time to decide on a new king, he then canvas Rome for votes,
going from person to person and presenting himself as the best candidate for the
job. It seems that he made a good impression because Tarquin,
the elder was elected as the fifth king of Rome,
around 616 BC to the displeasure of anchor's offspring.
The senior Tarquin had a long reign of almost 40 years.
He expanded Rome's borders by conquering. Many of its neighbors.
He added another a hundred people to the Senate and he enacted notable
construction projects,
such as the city's first bridge and the first version of the circus Maximus
during his reign,
the story of another Roman emerged one concerning a young slave boy named SEIUs
Tuli who my,
they used to be a noble woman before our city was captured by the Romans. Again,
we're relying heavily on Livy here,
but the historian claims that the young boys had was encircled by flames one day
as he slept,
when he awakes the flames simply disappeared without causing him any harm.
Queen town qui interpreted this as a sign that one day,
the boy would be there guiding light and would shield the house from harm.
We don't know if the Tarras officially adopted Sevi Julius,
that they raised him in their household.
And later even married him to their daughter. Tarquin by all accounts,
it looked like the tarns were positioning SEVIS Julius as their air,
even over their own two sons.
This could be because they felt he was more competent than them,
but it could also be that they were strong believers in Omans or they could also
be simply be Tuus was much older than their legitimate sons. Again,
we don't really have any idea when tar, when the proud was born.
So it's all a bit of guesswork really, since his father's reign lasted so long,
he could have been decades younger than Tuus and consequently,
not a suitable candidate for kingship when the time came,
some sources present tar, when the proud as the grand son of Pritzker,
not his son, and even li said that he was not completely sure.
So it is fairly reasonable to conclude that he was too young to follow in tar in
the eldest footsteps.
Now we'll have more on the last room in king in just a moment,
but first a word from today's outstanding video sponsor square space. You know,
what's great about the summer vacation time off a little bit of R and R's the
perfect time to spend lying on the beach or in the park dreaming about that next
project you want to start. Fortunately,
Squarespace gives you every possible tool.
You could want to make that dream into a reality, whether it's a small business,
a sports blog of creative portfolio, or just page full of D means, well,
it doesn't matter. If you can dream it, you can build it with Squarespace.
You're looking to get a and out quick,
without singing too much about what your website should look like.
Bam is one of their quick and beautiful templates to make a website that's
fresh. And for you like it's right out the box,
or maybe you're more of a hands on person,
you've got lots of opinions and ideas about exactly what your site should look
like.
Op Squarespace gives you all the customization options you could ever want with
no updates, no patches, no technical BS to worry about.
Once you've done setting up your website, tinkering with the design,
if you're so inclined, or maybe just playing with the colors,
there are so many extra features that Squarespace provides that your website can
thrive. Email campaigns, patronage portal, social integrations, number,
any areas, analytics, commercial options,
24 7 customer support everything you could ever want in one place.
So when you're ready to get started on our next project of yours, big or small,
if it involves your website, it's gotta be with Squarespace. Right now,
you can go to squarespace.com for a free trial.
And when you're ready to launch your new site,
go to squarespace.com/biographics,
and you'll save 10% of your first purchase of a website or a domain.
And let's get back to talk in the proud
Positioning, Seus Julius, as the new presumptive air anger, the son's anus,
Markus, they already Harbor deep presentment toward tar.
When the elder for depriving them of what they considered to be their rightful
throne.
And now they regarded the idea of someone like Julius becoming the new king to
be a great insult.
We're not sure why exactly they waited for almost four decades,
but they finally decided that it was time to get their revenge on Tarquin.
Their plan was hardly the work of a criminal masterminds.
They enlisted the help of two shepherds who entered the palace and started
having a violent quarrel. That is the guards intervened and temple settled down.
The shepherds were brought before the king to state their case.
While one of them was talking and held everyone what his attention,
the other one produced an accent, drove it into the King's head.
And then they both quickly made a run for it. Ken Tarn, the elder was dead,
but it was his wife's quick thinking that ensure their family would not lose the
throne. She didn't allow word that the king had died to get out.
As far as the rest of Rome was concerned, Taren had been attacked,
but he was recovering at home. Meanwhile,
he seated temporary authority to jus to act in his place.
This went on for a few days before jus revealed that Tarkin was dead and that he
had been ruling on his own. By that point, his authority was already secure.
So Seus Julius became the sixth king of Roman. The first one,
not to be elected by the people.
Julius also appeared to have a long reign spanning several decades.
But during that time he considered the possibility that tar in's own sons had
the same kind of animosity towards him as the sons of anus Marcius and towards
his predecessor til thought he could alleviate some of that entity by marrying
his two daughters, both named Tulio to tar Quinn's two sons,
Lucius Tarquin Superbus and Aaron's Tarquin.
This did not turn out like TEUs had hoped because Neil, the couple paired, well,
Lucius Tarens was conniving, greedy and lustful for power.
While his wife Twilio, the elder was not meanwhile,
Tulia theca was also conniving, greedy and lustful for power.
While her husband Aaron Quins was not Livy said it was the good fortune of room,
which intervenes in order to prevent the two violent scheming personalities from
marrying each other. But it didn't not managed to stop them.
Mazi only delayed their partnerships soon in enough Tarquin and Tulia,
the younger realized that they were made for each other first things. First,
they had to get rid of their spouses. It's uncertain how Tulio the elder died,
but Aaron Quins was supposedly poisoned by his wife afterwards,
the two unscrupulous partners in crime,
married each other and began plotting against Tuus to the throne.
Tarquin first secured the support of all the senators who had grievances against
Tuus. This did not prove to be too difficult.
Many of the lesser houses were on tar Quinn's side,
since it was his father who originally adopted them to the senates.
Then there are all the ones who resented Julius for taking power without being
elected. Once Tarquin was confident that he had enough support.
He stormed the forum with armed guards into the Senate house,
sat on the Royal chair and gave an impasioned speech denigrating.
Tuus focusing mainly on his roots as a slave and his illegitimate rice.
The throne when Julius arrived,
the two of them got into an argument which turned physical, the younger,
stronger Tarquin had at the, a advance.
He holds the king down the steps of the Senate house.
His armed guards then rushed to the Tuus and put him to death.
But the greatest wickedness was displayed by the King's zone daughter, Tulia.
She arrived at the forum in a car and her driver stopped suddenly in horror,
as he saw the mangled corpse of SEIUs Tuus,
but Tulia then ordered him to drive right over a father's body and approached
the Senate house to be the first to salute. Tarquin.
The proud is the new king of Rome
With Julius out of the way Tarran was now free to begin his reign of terror men.
Indeed.
It was that because Tarquin knew that he had no legitimate claims that the
kingdom having been neither elected by the people nor confirmed either Senate.
He also realized that what he had done to Tuus could very easily happen to him.
And so he saw no other choice,
but to use violence and fear to secure his position,
he started out with a purge killing all the senators and other Nobles.
He suspected might be loyal to his predecessor afterwards.
He began holding trials with no counselors or assessors,
basically just being able to execute banish or simply find anyone he wanted with
no justification.
He also refused to fill the vacancies in the Senate in order to weaken it as
much as possible. In fact,
Cassie SDO claimed that Tarquin wanted to get rid of the Senate permanently,
but felt that this was a step too far, even for him.
And that it would cause a revol so great that he in his own guards would turn
against him. Once he felt confidence in his position,
Tarquin embarked on a campaign of conquest,
determined to turn Romans of the most dominant power in the region.
He fought some of the neighbors such as the VCI,
the Saines and the city of Gaddy others.
He befriended through treaties such as the Tuscans and the city of Tusculum
whose leader Octas Maus became tar Quinn's son-in-law. Meanwhile,
the king also worked on ambitious projects inside Rome.
Although some of these have been initiated by his father ands completed by
Tarquin among them was the Cloaka Maxima.
One of the world's first sewage systems and the first version of the temple of
Jupiter Optima Maximas built on the capital Dean hill,
which retained its significant as the most important temple in Rome throughout
the ancient period,
the king was also responsible for acquiring one of Rome's most cherished art
acts collection of prophecies, divinations,
and other IRA wisdoms known as the SI lane books.
According to the legends,
an old prophet house called Sibel visited Rome one day, carrying nine books,
she went to Tarquin and offered to sell him the books of prophecies for a huge
sum of money. When he refused the civil burns,
three of these books and then offered to sell him the remaining six,
but for the same exact amount this time, the king was more hesitant,
but he still turned down the deal. The Sibel then burns another three books.
And once again, asked Tarquin to buy the three which were left,
but she did not change the price at all. Finally,
the king relented and purchased the remaining three books,
which were placed inside. The apple mentioned temple of Jupiter,
Renon consulted during times of crisis, such as a plague,
a famine or a great war.
Darwin's ruthless rain asking cemented Romans regional power,
but it also created a powder keg of hate fear and resentment in a,
his own people just waiting for that one event that finally caused it to
explode. That event happens in 510 BC, but it was not caused by Tarquin himself,
but by one of his son's sexist, Quins beautiful.
And in love with a noble woman named Lucia,
but she was already married to one of his cousins, Lucia Tarquin collaterals.
This did not deter sexist. However,
he visited Lucretia while her husband was way busying the city of our day.
First, he tried to seduce her then to bribe her and finally to threaten her.
But none of these worked as Lucretia remained faithful to her husband.
Finally sexist said that he would kill her and her servants and place their
naked bodies together so that it would appear like they were caught in UL rape
to this Lucia relented and sexist raped her.
After it industry sent word to her father and husband to come home immediately.
She told both of them what had happens, made them swear oath to punish sex, to,
and then committed suicide. They set in motion,
a chain of events that went far beyond the punishment of sex to Quins who was
late killed in the city of Gabby. Strangely enough,
it was not a husband CLA who became the leading figure of the anti roll
movements. Another Tarquin named Lucius ju Brutus,
who was the sound of tar when's sister,
but hated the king because he had both his father and brother killed and their
property confiscated in Li's version of events.
Brutus picked up the bloody knife.
Lure used to commit suicide and SW oath to the gods to bring down Lucius tar
when's and his whole bred with fire and sort,
he then past the knife to coladas who swore the same oath.
And then to two other men lure who was lure father and Publius malarias
Cola, as it turns out, no fire and sword was necessary.
As the people of Rome didn't need a lot of convincing to get rid of the Tarquin
both li and Cassius dos said the British simply rode to Rome,
went to the forum and spoke to the people of the latest act committed by the tar
winds and easily turned the crowd against the Royals.
They then held a vote and banished Tarquin and his family afterwards Brutus
wrote to ode where the Roman army was and basically gave the same speech,
turning the soldiers against Tarquin as well.
The question now was who's going to rule Rome according to some versions of the
story Brutus made and swear,
I that they would never allow a man to become king of Rome. Again,
the Senate was restored to its full ranks.
So of course it played a large role in the running of Rome going forward,
but the city still needed someone at the top. Therefore,
the office of console was created with two consoles governing simultaneously so
that no one man became too powerful.
The first two consoles were Brutus and collates.
Although the public soon turned against the latter,
even though Lucretia had been colada's wife,
he was still related to the Towes and the people of Rome decided that they
didn't want any Tarquin in any position of power.
Therefore collates was forced to resign and was replaced by public Koa,
but about king Tarquin unsurprisingly,
once he found out he was no longer welcomed in Rome,
he didn't just pack up his bags and call it a day.
Although Cassius Dio did mention that tar Quinn's wife Tulia destroyed herself
when she discovered what had happened. Anyway,
Tarquin still had treaties with neighboring cities and he hopes that they would
be able to restore him to power. First, he turned to the Tuscan, a few cities,
such as Tarka Quinn IANS.
They lent their support and they fought a Roman army led by the two consoles at
the battle of Sylvia AIA and 509 BC. The Romans won,
although the man who was instrumental in bringing down the monarchy,
Lucius genius, Brutus was killed in action almost 500 years later,
his descendants Marcus juniors,
Brutus played another pivotal role in the history of Rome when he assassinated
Caesar, although he wasn't as successful,
but you can find out more about that in the biographics video we did on Marcus
Jr. Brutus under third to then appealed to LA pina,
the king of a powerful of TRUS city named Kusum in 508,
BC pina laid C John Rome, but ultimately he wasn't successful.
And he signed a peace treaty with Rome. We're not sure why,
but li he tells the story of it. Brave young Roman named Muus,
who SN POS camp to assassinate him. However, a case, a mistake,
an identity caused him to kill the king scribe by mistake,
during interrogation Muus willingly put his own hand in the fire to show that he
was not afraid to die.
Some say that POS was moved by the young man's bravery others,
that he was simply shook up by the attempt on his life.
Either way he lived did the seed returned to Clusium tar Quinn's last attempt to
retake the throne occurred with the help of his son-in-law Octavius Maus leader
of the Tusculum. This happened around 496 BC.
It was over a decade later and Taan was an old man. By this point,
he still held out hope, but it was eventually extinguished.
The battle of lake reus, where Maus was killed. Tarquin had no more allies left.
He retired to the city of kuai the court of the tyrant Aris Demus and he died
soon after ER, fond 95.
BC news of his death was met with joy back in Romes,
both BLEs and Patricias celebrated not only the demise of tar in the proud but
of the entire Roman monarchy. So I really hope you enjoyed the video.
If you did, please do hit that thumbs up bottom below. Don't forget a subscribe.
Please do check out a fantastic onto Squarespace as well, link below.
And thank you for watching.